kadai mushroom recipe

prep time
15 mins
cook time
25 mins
total time
40 mins
 
kadai mushroom - cooked button mushrooms in a semi dry gravy of spiced and tangy tomato sauce along with juliennes of green bell pepper.
author: dassana
recipe type: main
cuisine: punjabi, north indian
serves: 3-4
ingredients (measuring cup used, 1 cup = 250 ml)
for kadai masala:
1 tbsp coriander seeds/sabut dhania
3 to 4 dry red chilies, broken and deseeded if preferred
½ tsp cumin seed/jeera
½ inch cinnamon/dal chini
1 green cardamom/chotti elachi
2 cloves/lavang
3 to 4 black pepper/kalimirch
1 single strand of mace/javitri (optional)
other ingredients:
200-250 gms button mushrooms, sliced
1 medium to large capsicum/bell pepper, thinly sliced or julienned (red or green or yellow)
2 medium to large tomatoes, pureed, about ¾ cup tomato puree (use tomatoes which are ripe, red and not too tangy)
1 medium onion, about ½ cup finely chopped onion
½ inch ginger + 3 to 4 medium garlic, crushed in a mortar-pestle or 1 tsp ginger-garlic paste
1 tsp dry fenugreek leaves/kasuri methi, crushed
¼ tsp turmeric powder/haldi, optional
½ cup water, 125 ml
3 tbsp oil
salt as required
for garnish:
1 to 2 tbsp chopped coriander leaves
½ inch ginger/adrak, julienne
variations:
1 or 2 tbsp cream - low fat 25 to 35 % cream can be added right at the end and mixed with the gravy
¼ tsp garam masala powder or punjabi garam masala- garam masala powder can be added when you add the kasuri methi/dry fenugreek leaves
how to make the recipe:
preparing the kadai masala:
first dry roast all the spices mentioned above for the kadai masala, on a low flame in a kadai/wok or a pan till fragrant. don't burn them.
once the spices cool down, add them to a grinder jar.
grind to a semi fine powder. you can also grind to a fine powder. keep the ground kadai masala aside.
preparing the kadai mushroom gravy:
in the same jar, add chopped tomatoes. blend the tomatoes to a smooth puree. keep aside.
rinse, wipe and then slice the mushrooms. also thinly slice the bell pepper & chop the onions etc. keep the veggies aside.
heat 3 tbsp oil in a kadai or pan. add the sliced mushrooms.
stir & saute the sliced mushrooms. first you will see the mushrooms releasing a lot of water.
then later the water evaporates. saute till the mushrooms get browned from the edges.
remove the mushrooms and keep aside.
in the same oil, add finely chopped onions. saute the onions till translucent or light golden.
now add the ginger-garlic paste and saute till their raw aroma disappears.
add the tomato puree. stir and saute till you see some oil releasing from the sides.
then add the sliced capsicum/bell pepper. stir and saute for 5 to 6 minutes on a low flame
add the ground kadai masala which we made. you can also add ¼ tsp turmeric powder at this step. adding turmeric powder is optional though.
then add ½ cup water. season with salt.
stir & bring the gravy to a simmer on a low flame till you see a few specks of oil on top.
add the sauteed mushrooms.
lastly add crushed kasuri methi/dry fenugreek leaves. switch off the stove.
stir and then serve kadai mushroom hot with rotis, parathas or naan. garnish kadai mushrooms with ginger julienne and chopped coriander leaves.
notes
other varieties of mushrooms can also be used instead of button mushrooms.

you can increase or decrease the amount of red chilies as per their heat & pungency.